docs: update Perforce docs to make setup steps clearer and document permissions (#47602)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/admin/repo/perforce.md

![Screenshot of a Perforce repository in a Sourcegraph](https://sourcegraphstatic.com/git-p4-example.png)

## Add a Perforce code host connection

Perforce depots can be added to a Sourcegraph instance by adding the appropriate [code host connection](../external_service/index.md).

1. Perforce code host connections are still an experimental feature. To access this functionality, a site admin must enable the experimental feature in the [site configuration](../config/site_config.md):

    ```json
    {
      "experimentalFeatures": {
        "perforce": "enabled"
      }
      // ...
    }
    ```
1. Go to **Site admin > Manage code hosts > Add code host**
1. Select **Perforce**.
1. Configure which depots are mirrored/synchronized as Git repositories to Sourcegraph:

    - [`depots`](perforce.md#depots)<br>A list of depot paths that can be either a depot root or an arbitrary subdirectory. **Note**: Only `"local"` type depots are supported.

>     - [`p4.user`](perforce.md#p4-user)<br>The user to be authenticated for p4 CLI, and should be capable of performing `p4 ping`, `p4 login`, `p4 trust` and any p4 commands involved with `git p4 clone` and `git p4 sync` for listed `depots`. If repository permissions are mirrored, the user needs additional ability to perform the `p4 protects`, `p4 groups`, `p4 group`, `p4 users` commands (aka. "super" access level).

Reviewer: I wonder would it read better if it used lists underneath when it's enumerating commands.

```suggestion
    - [`p4.user`](perforce.md#p4-user)
       
       The user to be authenticated for `p4` CLI, and should be capable of performing:
           - `p4 ping`,
           - `p4 login`,
           - `p4 trust`
           - and any p4 commands involved with `git p4 clone` and `git p4 sync` for listed `depots`.
           
       If repository permissions are mirrored, the user needs additional ability to perform the
           - `p4 protects`, 
           - `p4 groups`, 
           - `p4 group`, 
           -`p4 users` commands (aka. "super" access level).
```

    - [`p4.passwd`](perforce.md#p4-passwd)<br>The ticket value to be used for authenticating the `p4.user`. It is recommended to create tickets of users in a group that never expire. Use the command `p4 -u <p4.user> login -p -a` to obtain a ticket value.

    See the [configuration documentation below](#configuration) for other fields you can configure.

> 1. **Optional, but recommended**: use the [`p4-fusion`](https://github.com/salesforce/p4-fusion) client by configuring `fusionClient` for better performance:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Optional, but recommended**: Use the [`p4-fusion`](https://github.com/salesforce/p4-fusion) client by configuring `fusionClient` for better performance:
```

    ```json
    {
        // ...
        "fusionClient": {
          "enabled": true,
          "lookAhead": 2000
        }
    }
    ```

>     Details of all `p4-fusion` configuration fields can be seen [here](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@2a716bd70c294acf1b3679b790834c4dea9ea956/-/blob/schema/perforce.schema.json?L84).

Reviewer 2: Small nit keeping UX in mind, maybe we link to the config range instead of the start only:

```suggestion
    Details of all `p4-fusion` configuration fields can be seen [here](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@2a716bd70c294acf1b3679b790834c4dea9ea956/-/blob/schema/perforce.schema.json?L84-146).
```

Author: Good idea. I added that suggestion in three places that referenced lines

    Without the `fusionClient` configuration, the code host connection uses `git p4`, but we recommend `p4-fusion` for better performance.

1. Click **Add repositories**.

Sourcegraph will now talk to the Perforce host and sync the configured `depots` to the Sourcegraph instance.

It's worthwhile to note some limitations of this process:

- When syncing depots either [git p4](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-p4) or [p4-fusion](https://github.com/salesforce/p4-fusion) (recommended) are used to convert Perforce depots into git repositories so that Sourcegraph can index them.
- Rename of a Perforce depot, including changing the depot on the Perforce server or the `repositoryPathPattern` config option, will cause a re-import of the depot.

> - Unless [permissions syncing](#repository-permissions) is enabled, Sourcegraph knows nothing of the permissions on the depots, so it can't enforce access restrictions.

Reviewer 2: Minor rephrase:

```suggestion
- Unless [permissions syncing](#repository-permissions) is enabled, Sourcegraph is not aware of the depot permissions, so it can't enforce access restrictions.
```

## Repository permissions

To enforce repository-level permissions for Perforce depots using [Perforce permissions tables](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/cmdref/Content/CmdRef/p4_protect.html), include [the `authorization` field](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@2a716bd70c294acf1b3679b790834c4dea9ea956/-/blob/schema/perforce.schema.json?L67) to the configuration of the Perforce code host connection you created [above](#add-a-perforce-code-host):

```json
{
  // ...
  "authorization": {}
}
```

Adding the `authorization` field to the code host connection configuration will enable partial parsing of the permissions tables.

### Syncing subdirectories to match permission boundaries

By default Sourcegraph only supports repository-level permissions and does not match the granularity of [Perforce permissions tables](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/cmdref/Content/CmdRef/p4_protect.html).

If you don't [activate file-level permissions](#file-level-permissions) you should sync subdirectories of a depot using the `depots` configuration that best describes the most concrete path of your permissions boundary.

> For example, if your Perforce depot `//depot/Talkhouse` has different permissions for `//depot/Talkhouse/main-dev` and some subdirectories of `//depot/Talkhouse/rel1.0`, we recommend setting the following `depots`:

Reviewer 3: I think if we are giving a specific example, let's name `some` subdirectories directly. I needed to read the sentence and then cross-reference the JSON underneath to understand what the sentence means.
```suggestion
For example, if your Perforce depot `//depot/Talkhouse` has different permissions for `//depot/Talkhouse/main-dev` and subdirectories `//depot/Talkhouse/rel1.0/front`, `//depot/Talkhouse/rel1.0/back` we recommend setting the following `depots`:
```

Or something similar.

```json
{
  // ...
  "depots": [
    "//depot/Talkhouse/main-dev",
    "//depot/Talkhouse/rel1.0/front",
    "//depot/Talkhouse/rel1.0/back"
  ]
}
```

By configuring each subdirectory that has unique permissions, Sourcegraph is able to recognize and enforce permissions for the sub-directories. You can **NOT** define these permissions as:

```json
{
  // ...
  "depots": [
    "//depot/Talkhouse/main-dev",
    "//depot/Talkhouse/rel1.0",
    "//depot/Talkhouse/rel1.0/back"
  ]
}
```

Since that would override the permissions for the `//depot/Talkhouse/rel1.0/back` depot.

> #### Wildcards 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Wildcards
```

```sh
write user alice * //TestDepot/...
write user alice * //TestDepot/*/spec/...
write user alice * //TestDepot/.../spec/...
```

> WARNING: Permissions only be enforced per-repository, **not per-file** - [learn more](#file-level-permissions).

#### File-level permissions

> NOTE: See [below](#experimental-support-for-file-level-permissions) for details on experimental support for file level permissions

Sourcegraph does not support file-level permissions, as allowed in [Perforce permissions tables](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/cmdref/Content/CmdRef/p4_protect.html). That means if a user has access to a directory and also has exclusions to some subdirectories, _those exclusions will not be enforced in Sourcegraph_ because Sourcegraph does not support file-level permissions.

For example, consider the following output of `p4 protects -u alice`:

```text
list user * * -//...
list user * * -//spec/...
write user alice * //TestDepot/...

> =write user alice * -//TestDepot/Secret/...

Reviewer 3: Did we fix this problem last year when @mollylogue and @ryanslade were working on it? If not, let's keep it under the caveats or known limitations section.

Author: @pjlast was working on it late last year also - might've been [this commit](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/commit/dbbb0e0ed059df0d3d337d5fe18c0505e4af6299) that addressed most of the problems?

> But permissions are only enforced per repository, **not per file**. For that you need to configure [file-level permissions](#file-level-permissions).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But permissions are only enforced per repository and **not per file**. For that you need to configure [file-level permissions](#file-level-permissions).
```

> - [the host field from protections are not supported](#known-issues-and-limitations).

Reviewer 3: We should add others here or directly to Known issues and limitations section.

- wildcard is only partially supported
- file level permissions are only partially supported

Author: I don't know the limitations of the wildcard support, or if there are any limitations anymore. The "Wildcard" section doesn't do much to clarify it, either.

What I understand about the file-level permissions is that they are fully supported by parsing the protections table now, if `subRepoPermissions` is toggled on.

Reviewer 3: Allright. I also have no idea on wildcard support. But wanted to make sure we do not remove callouts for unsupported stuff.

> - [the host field from protections are not supported](#known-issues-and-limitations).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [The host field from protections are not supported](#known-issues-and-limitations).
```

> <div markdown-func=jsonschemadoc jsonschemadoc:path="admin/external_service/perforce.schema.json">[View page on docs.sourcegraph.com](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/external_service/perforce) to see rendered content.</div>

Reviewer 5: Any idea why this link doesn't seem to format correctly?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20795805/218783398-f339121d-4301-40d6-be30-0a2ce946f889.png)

Reviewer 5: Strange looking [here](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/peterguy/update-perforce-docs/doc/admin/repo/perforce.md) and [here](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@peterguy/update-perforce-docs/-/blob/doc/admin/repo/perforce.md#configuration), it doesn't seem to process the link correctly 🤔

Author: oh, yeah, I don't think we can trust GitHub's markdown rendering to handle that. That's handled by the docsite renderer.

## Add a Perforce code host connection

Perforce depots can be added to a Sourcegraph instance by adding the appropriate [code host connection](../external_service/index.md).

Perforce code host connections are still an experimental feature.
To enable Perforce code host connections, a site admin must:

1. Enable the experimental feature in the [site configuration](../config/site_config.md):

    ```json
    {
      "experimentalFeatures": {
        "perforce": "enabled"
      }
      // ...
    }
    ```

1. Go to **Site admin > Manage code hosts > Add code host**

1. Select **Perforce**.

1. Configure which depots are mirrored/synchronized as Git repositories to Sourcegraph:

    - [`depots`](perforce.md#depots)
      
      A list of depot paths that can be either a depot root or an arbitrary subdirectory. **Note**: Only `"local"` type depots are supported.

    - [`p4.user`](perforce.md#p4-user)
      
      The user to be authenticated for `p4` CLI, and should be capable of performing:
      - `p4 ping`
      - `p4 login`
      - `p4 trust`
      - and any p4 commands involved with `git p4 clone` and `git p4 sync` for listed `depots`.
           

>       If repository permissions are mirrored, the user needs additional ability (aka. "super" access level) to perform the commands

Reviewer 6: nit
```suggestion
      If repository permissions are mirrored, the user needs additional ability (aka. "super" access level) to perform the commands:
```

write user alice * //TestDepot/.../spec/...
```

But permissions are only enforced per repository and **not per file**. For that you need to configure [file-level permissions](#file-level-permissions).

### File-level permissions

File-level permissions make the [syncing of subdirectories to match permission boundaries](#syncing-subdirectories-to-match-permission-boundaries) unnecessary.

To enable file-level permissions:

1. Enable [the feature in the site config](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@2a716bd/-/blob/schema/site.schema.json?L227-249):

    ```json
    {
      // ...
      "experimentalFeatures": {
        "perforce": "enabled",
        "subRepoPermissions": { "enabled": true }
      }
    }
    ```

1. Enable the feature in the code host configuration by adding `subRepoPermissions` to the `authorization` object:

    ```json
    {
      // ...
      "authorization": {
        "subRepoPermissions": true
      }
    }
    ```

1. Save the configuration. Permissions will be synced in the background based on your [Perforce permissions tables](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/cmdref/Content/CmdRef/p4_protect.html).

### Notes about permissions

> - Sourcegraph users are mapped to Perforce users based on their verified e-mail addresses.

Reviewer 6: nit

```suggestion
- Sourcegraph users are mapped to Perforce users based on their verified email addresses.
```
